README.md, before:

# Supermarket

[![unit](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/unit.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/unit.yml)
[![lint](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![ctl-cookbook-testing](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/ctl-cookbook-testing.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/ctl-cookbook-testing.yml)
[![Inline docs](http://inch-ci.org/github/chef/supermarket.svg)](http://inch-ci.org/github/chef/supermarket)

Supermarket is Chef's community repository for cookbooks, currently hosted at [supermarket.chef.io](supermarket.chef.io). Supermarket can also run internally, behind-the-firewall.

**Umbrella Project**: [Supermarket](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/projects/supermarket.md)

* **[Project State](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/repo-management/repo-states.md):** Maintained
* **Issues [Response Time Maximum](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/repo-management/repo-states.md):** 14 days
* **Pull Request [Response Time Maximum](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/repo-management/repo-states.md):** 14 days

The code is designed to be easy for others to contribute. The goal of the **README** file is to familiarize you with the project. You can find detailed information about Supermarket at [Wiki](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/wiki) page.

If you want to contribute to **Supermarket**, read the [contributor's workflow](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for license information and other helpful tips that aid you in getting started. There are project artifacts such as planning docs, wireframes, recorded demos, and team retrospectives at [public Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/a/gofullstack.com/#folders/0B6WV7Qy0ZCUfbFFPNG9CejExUW8).

If you have questions, feature ideas, or other suggestions, please [open a GitHub Issue](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/issues/new).

This repository has the code for the **Supermarket** application and the omnibus definition used to build the `deb/rpm` packages. Other Supermarket related repositories are:

* [chef-cookbooks/supermarket-omnibus-cookbook](https://github.com/chef-cookbooks/supermarket-omnibus-cookbook): This cookbook is used to deploy Supermarket through the Supermarket omnibus package. For details on using this cookbook to install Supermarket omnibus, check out [this webinar by the Supermarket Engineering team](https://www.chef.io/webinars/?commid=164925).

## Development

### Configuration

Configure the [dotenv](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv) keys and secrets. See `.env.example` for required keys and secrets. [`docs/CONFIGURING.md`](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/blob/main/src/supermarket/docs/CONFIGURING.md) page details the *not-so-straightforward configuration* information required to setup Supermarket working locally.

### Local Environment

These instructions are tested and verified on macOS Catalina (10.15).

#### Dependency Services

##### As Docker Containers

1. Install `docker`

    ```shell
    brew cask install docker
    ```

  Ensure you have a *PostgreSQL* version installed on the local filesystem for development libraries to be available for building the `pg` gem. See the instructions for locally running *PostgreSQL* below, however omit the steps where the service is running.

1. Start the docker containers.

    ```shell
    cd src/supermarket
    docker-compose up
    ```

##### As Locally Running Processes

1. Install *Postgres* by following any of the below instructions:

    * Install the [Postgres App](http://postgresapp.com/):

      This is probably the simplest way to get *Postgres* running on your mac.  You can then start a *Postgres* server through the GUI of the app. If you go this route, then you'll have to add `/Applications/Postgres.app/Contents/Versions/9.4/bin/` or the equivalent path to obtain the *pg gem* to build.

    * Through [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/):

      ```shell
      brew install postgresql
      ```

     When installed through homebrew, *Postgres* often requires additional configuration, see this [blog post](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/three-battle-tested-ways-to-install-postgresql) for instructions. Ensure to start the *Postgresql* server by following the command given below.

      ```shell
      pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres -l /usr/local/var/postgres/server.log start
      ```

1. Install *Redis*. You can install it with [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/). Follow the instructions in the install output to start the *redis* server.

    ```shell
    brew install redis
    ```

    Run the *redis* server using command:

    ```shell
    redis-server --daemonize yes
    ```

#### Development Environment

1. Ensure you have *Xcode* installed.

1. Install a Ruby manager. If you don't already have one, you will need a *Ruby manager* to install the appropriate Ruby release, such as:
   * [RVM](https://rvm.io)
   * [Rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv)
   * [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby)
   * or any other Ruby version manager that may come along.

1. Use your ruby manager to install the necessary *Ruby* release. For instructions on this, please see the manager's documentation.

1. Ensure you have the *Supermarket* repo cloned to your machine. If not, clone it.
1. Navigate to that directory.

    ```shell
    cd <supermarket-repo>
    ```

1. Again, navigate to the *src* folder.

    ```shell
    cd src/supermarket
    ```

1. Install *Bundler* gem.

    ```shell
    gem install bundler:2.1.4 --user-install
    ```

1. Install required gems:

    ```shell
    bundle install
    ```

    **Note**: You might encounter the following errors. The possible fixes are also provided here.
     * Error installing gem: ***mimemagic***
     * Fix-> `brew install shared-mime-info`
     * If you get error installing **therubyracer** and **libv8** on macOS, follow the steps outlined in this link: [https://billykong.github.io/ruby/2020/03/17/fixing-libv8-in-osx-catalina.html](https://billykong.github.io/ruby/2020/03/17/fixing-libv8-in-osx-catalina.html)
    

2. Create the database, migrate to it, and then seed the database:

    ```shell
    bundle exec rails db:setup
    ```

3. Add required *Postgres* extensions.

    ```shell
    psql supermarket_development -c 'create extension plpgsql'
    psql supermarket_development -c 'create extension pg_trgm'
    ```

    **Note**: Ignore if the above 2 commands displays the following error: extension already exists.
    

4. Start the server:

    ```shell
    bundle exec foreman start
    ```

    **Note**: If you receive errors, ensure that *redis* and *Postgres* are running.
    

## Setting up Auth

Supermarket uses *oc-id* running on a Chef Infra Server to authenticate users to Supermarket.

IF YOU ARE AN INTERNAL CHEF STAFFER - We will be performing some settings prior to set you up with *oc-id*. Consult the internal wiki on setting up your Supermarket dev environment (or ask a friendly team member!).

**Note**: Authentication currently requires a live Chef Infra Server running *oc-id*. We are working on a solution that would allow a developer to run the authentication locally. Stay tuned.

Create a new application and register it on *oc-id* (I called my application **Application:Supermarket Development**). Set the callback URL to <http://localhost:3000/auth/chef_oauth2/callback> or whatever localhost domain you use.

In your local copy of the *Supermarket* repo, copy the `.env` file to `.env.development`. Open up `.env.development` and replace these values:

  ```shell
  CHEF_OAUTH2_APP_ID=YOUR_CHEF_OAUTH2_APP_ID
  CHEF_OAUTH2_SECRET=YOUR_CHEF_OAUTH2_SECRET
  ```

with these values:

  ```shell
  CHEF_OAUTH2_APP_ID=[Application ID of the oc-id application you just registered]
  CHEF_OAUTH2_SECRET=[Secret of the oc-id application you just registered]
  ```

Restart your *foreman* server.

Now, when you click **Sign In**, you will be taken to your supermarket account with your Chef account!

**Note**: If you receive an omniauth csrf detected error, try clearing your browser's cache.

## SPDX license linking for cookbooks

If a cookbook that has *licenseId*, which is also mentioned in *SPDX license* listed at <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-data/blob/master/json/licenses.json>, you need to update with respective license URL.

When a new cookbook is uploaded, license url information is fetched from the above link and is updated.

For an existing implementation of supermarket, there is a provision running with some *ctl* commands, for updating the information for cookbooks already there in system.

Following commands are available to update the license URLs for cookbooks:

### Update licenses URLs for all the cookbooks in the system

`spdx-all`

### Update for a single cookbook

`spdx-latest <cookbook_name>`

### Update for a particular version of a cookbook

`spdx-on-version <cookbook_name> <cookbook_version>`

## Connecting your GitHub Account

There are a couple of features that depend on GitHub integration (some quality metrics in Fieri) with your development environment. Follow these steps to create an application with your Github account:

1. Log into your Github account.
1. Click on your **username** in the upper right-hand corner. Your Profile page appears.
1. Click the **Edit Profile** button in the upper right corner of the Profile page.
1. Click **Applications** from the vertical menu on the left-hand side.
1. Click the **Register new Application** button from the section labeled **Developer applications** at the top of the screen.
1. Specify the name of your application (For example, *Chef-Supermarket-Testing*), then set the homepage URL as <http://localhost:3000> (or whatever localhost domain that you use).
1. Set the *Authorization callback URL* to `http://localhost:3000` (or your localhost domain of choice).
1. Click the **Register application** button.
1. Open the `.env.development` file in your local copy of the *Supermarket repo*.
1. Replace these values:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=YOUR_GITHUB_KEY
  GITHUB_SECRET=YOUR_GITHUB_SECRET
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=[Your new application's client ID]
  GITHUB_SECRET=[Your new application's client secret]
  ```

1. Next, create a *Github Access* token. You can also do this from the **Applications** section of your **Profile** page.

1. Navigate to the **Personal access tokens** section.
1. Click the **Generate new token** button.
1. When prompted, enter your **Github password**.
1. Enter the **Token description**. For example, *testing-supermarket*.
1. Leave the scopes at the defaults.
1. Click the **Generate token** button.
1. Copy the token generated and secure it safe!.
1. Open up your `.env.development` file again.
1. Replace this value:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=YOUR_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=[Token you just generated through Github]
  ```

## Connecting your GitHub Enterprise Account

There are a couple of features that depend on GitHub Enterprise integration (some quality metrics in Fieri) with your development environment. Follow these steps to create an application with your Github account::

1. Log into your Github Enterprise account.
1. Click on your **username** in the upper right-hand corner.
1. Click **User settings** in the vertical menu on the right corner. Your public Profile page appears.
1. Click **Developer settings** in the vertical menu on the left-hand side.
1. Click the section labeled **Developer settings** with text *OAuth App* at the top of the screen.
1. Click **new OAuth App**. You can now register to a new *OAuth application* page.
1. Specify the name of your application. (For example, *testing-supermarket-app*), then set the homepage URL as <http://localhost:3000> (or whatever localhost domain that you use).
1. Set the **Authorization callback URL** to <http://localhost:3000/auth/github/callback> (or your localhost domain of choice).
1. Click the **"**Register application** button.
1. Open up the `.env.development` file in your local copy of the *Supermarket repo*.
1. Replace these values:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=YOUR_GITHUB_KEY
  GITHUB_SECRET=YOUR_GITHUB_SECRET
  GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_URL
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_SITE=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_SITE
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_AUTHORIZE_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_AUTHORIZE_URL
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=[Your new application's client ID]
  GITHUB_SECRET=[Your new application's client secret]
  GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_URL=[Your GitHub Enterprise URL]
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_SITE=YOURGITHUBENTERPRISEURL/api/v3
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_AUTHORIZE_URL=YOURGITHUBENTERPRISEURL/login/oauth/authorize
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL=YOURGITHUBENTERPRISEURL/login/oauth/access_token
  ```

1. Next, create a **GitHub Access** token. You also do this from the **Developer settings** section.

1. Click **Personal access tokens**. The *Personal access tokens* page appears.
1. Navigate to the **Personal access tokens** section.
1. Click the **Generate new token** button.
1. When prompted, enter your **GitHub password**.
1. Enter the **Token description**. For example, *testing-supermarket*.
1. Leave the scopes at the defaults.
1. Click the **Generate token** button.
1. Copy the token generated and secure it safe!.
1. Open up your `.env.development` file again.
1. Replace this value:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=YOUR_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=[Token you just generated through Github]
  ```

## Tests

Requirements for tests: PhantomJS 1.8, Node.

Run the entire test suite (rspec, rubocop and mocha) with:

```shell
bundle exec rake spec:all
```

### Acceptance Tests

Acceptance tests are run with [Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara). Run `rake spec:features` to run the specs in `spec/features`. The default `rake spec` also runs these.

When writing feature specs, the *Rack::Test* driver is used by default. If the *Poltergeist* driver is required to be used (for example, an acceptance test that uses AJAX), add the `use_poltergeist: true` metadata to the spec.

Some specs run using [PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/), which must be installed for the test suite to pass.

### JavaScript Tests

The JavaScript specs are run with [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io) and use the [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) test framework and the [Chai Assertion Library](http://chaijs.com/).

The specs live in `spec/javascripts`. Run `rake spec:javascripts` to run the specs, and `rake spec:javascripts:watch` to run them continuously and watch for changes.

[Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) is required to run the JavaScript tests.

## Background Jobs

[Read about Supermarket's background jobs in the wiki](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/wiki/Background-Jobs).

## Feature Flags

*Supermarket* uses a `.env` file to configure itself. Inside this file are *key/value* pairs. These *key/value* pairs will be exported as environment variables when the app runs, and *Supermarket* looks for these keys as environment variables when it needs to read a value that's configurable.

One of these keys is called `FEATURES` and it controls a number of features that can be turned on and off. Here are the available features that can be toggled:

* tools
* fieri
* announcement
* github
* no_crawl

Commit message:

replace phantomjs with cuprite (#3293)
* fixed deprecation warning

* replace phantomjs with cuprite

* karma conf update

* removed phantomjs from require

* readme updated

* deprecation warning fix

* integrate with unit test githun pipeline

* added browser path

* code cleanup

* code cleanup

* code cleanup

Signed-off-by: Rajesh Paul <rajesh.paul@progress.com>

* added support for mac for running unit tests

Signed-off-by: Rajesh Paul <rajesh.paul@progress.com>

* corrected readme

Signed-off-by: Rajesh Paul <rajesh.paul@progress.com>

* updated dev docs

Signed-off-by: Rajesh Paul <rajesh.paul@progress.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Rajesh Paul <rajesh.paul@progress.com>

README.md, after:

# Supermarket

[![unit](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/unit.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/unit.yml)
[![lint](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![ctl-cookbook-testing](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/ctl-cookbook-testing.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/actions/workflows/ctl-cookbook-testing.yml)
[![Inline docs](http://inch-ci.org/github/chef/supermarket.svg)](http://inch-ci.org/github/chef/supermarket)

Supermarket is Chef's community repository for cookbooks, currently hosted at [supermarket.chef.io](supermarket.chef.io). Supermarket can also run internally, behind-the-firewall.

**Umbrella Project**: [Supermarket](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/projects/supermarket.md)

* **[Project State](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/repo-management/repo-states.md):** Maintained
* **Issues [Response Time Maximum](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/repo-management/repo-states.md):** 14 days
* **Pull Request [Response Time Maximum](https://github.com/chef/chef-oss-practices/blob/master/repo-management/repo-states.md):** 14 days

The code is designed to be easy for others to contribute. The goal of the **README** file is to familiarize you with the project. You can find detailed information about Supermarket at [Wiki](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/wiki) page.

If you want to contribute to **Supermarket**, read the [contributor's workflow](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for license information and other helpful tips that aid you in getting started. There are project artifacts such as planning docs, wireframes, recorded demos, and team retrospectives at [public Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/a/gofullstack.com/#folders/0B6WV7Qy0ZCUfbFFPNG9CejExUW8).

If you have questions, feature ideas, or other suggestions, please [open a GitHub Issue](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/issues/new).

This repository has the code for the **Supermarket** application and the omnibus definition used to build the `deb/rpm` packages. Other Supermarket related repositories are:

* [chef-cookbooks/supermarket-omnibus-cookbook](https://github.com/chef-cookbooks/supermarket-omnibus-cookbook): This cookbook is used to deploy Supermarket through the Supermarket omnibus package. For details on using this cookbook to install Supermarket omnibus, check out [this webinar by the Supermarket Engineering team](https://www.chef.io/webinars/?commid=164925).

## Development

### Configuration

Configure the [dotenv](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv) keys and secrets. See `.env.example` for required keys and secrets. [`docs/CONFIGURING.md`](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/blob/main/src/supermarket/docs/CONFIGURING.md) page details the *not-so-straightforward configuration* information required to setup Supermarket working locally.

### Local Environment

These instructions are tested and verified on macOS Catalina (10.15).

#### Dependency Services

##### As Docker Containers

1. Install `docker`

    ```shell
    brew cask install docker
    ```

  Ensure you have a *PostgreSQL* version installed on the local filesystem for development libraries to be available for building the `pg` gem. See the instructions for locally running *PostgreSQL* below, however omit the steps where the service is running.

1. Start the docker containers.

    ```shell
    cd src/supermarket
    docker-compose up
    ```

##### As Locally Running Processes

1. Install *Postgres* by following any of the below instructions:

    * Install the [Postgres App](http://postgresapp.com/):

      This is probably the simplest way to get *Postgres* running on your mac.  You can then start a *Postgres* server through the GUI of the app. If you go this route, then you'll have to add `/Applications/Postgres.app/Contents/Versions/9.4/bin/` or the equivalent path to obtain the *pg gem* to build.

    * Through [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/):

      ```shell
      brew install postgresql
      ```

     When installed through homebrew, *Postgres* often requires additional configuration, see this [blog post](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/three-battle-tested-ways-to-install-postgresql) for instructions. Ensure to start the *Postgresql* server by following the command given below.

      ```shell
      pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres -l /usr/local/var/postgres/server.log start
      ```

1. Install *Redis*. You can install it with [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/). Follow the instructions in the install output to start the *redis* server.

    ```shell
    brew install redis
    ```

    Run the *redis* server using command:

    ```shell
    redis-server --daemonize yes
    ```

#### Development Environment

1. Ensure you have *Xcode* installed.

1. Install a Ruby manager. If you don't already have one, you will need a *Ruby manager* to install the appropriate Ruby release, such as:
   * [RVM](https://rvm.io)
   * [Rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv)
   * [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby)
   * or any other Ruby version manager that may come along.

1. Use your ruby manager to install the necessary *Ruby* release. For instructions on this, please see the manager's documentation.

1. Ensure you have the *Supermarket* repo cloned to your machine. If not, clone it.
1. Navigate to that directory.

    ```shell
    cd <supermarket-repo>
    ```

1. Again, navigate to the *src* folder.

    ```shell
    cd src/supermarket
    ```

1. Install *Bundler* gem.

    ```shell
    gem install bundler:2.1.4 --user-install
    ```

1. Install required gems:

    ```shell
    bundle install
    ```

    **Note**: You might encounter the following errors. The possible fixes are also provided here.
     * Error installing gem: ***mimemagic***
     * Fix-> `brew install shared-mime-info`
     * If you get error installing **therubyracer** and **libv8** on macOS, follow the steps outlined in this link: [https://billykong.github.io/ruby/2020/03/17/fixing-libv8-in-osx-catalina.html](https://billykong.github.io/ruby/2020/03/17/fixing-libv8-in-osx-catalina.html)
    

2. Create the database, migrate to it, and then seed the database:

    ```shell
    bundle exec rails db:setup
    ```

3. Add required *Postgres* extensions.

    ```shell
    psql supermarket_development -c 'create extension plpgsql'
    psql supermarket_development -c 'create extension pg_trgm'
    ```

    **Note**: Ignore if the above 2 commands displays the following error: extension already exists.
    

4. Start the server:

    ```shell
    bundle exec foreman start
    ```

    **Note**: If you receive errors, ensure that *redis* and *Postgres* are running.
    

## Setting up Auth

Supermarket uses *oc-id* running on a Chef Infra Server to authenticate users to Supermarket.

IF YOU ARE AN INTERNAL CHEF STAFFER - We will be performing some settings prior to set you up with *oc-id*. Consult the internal wiki on setting up your Supermarket dev environment (or ask a friendly team member!).

**Note**: Authentication currently requires a live Chef Infra Server running *oc-id*. We are working on a solution that would allow a developer to run the authentication locally. Stay tuned.

Create a new application and register it on *oc-id* (I called my application **Application:Supermarket Development**). Set the callback URL to <http://localhost:3000/auth/chef_oauth2/callback> or whatever localhost domain you use.

In your local copy of the *Supermarket* repo, copy the `.env` file to `.env.development`. Open up `.env.development` and replace these values:

  ```shell
  CHEF_OAUTH2_APP_ID=YOUR_CHEF_OAUTH2_APP_ID
  CHEF_OAUTH2_SECRET=YOUR_CHEF_OAUTH2_SECRET
  ```

with these values:

  ```shell
  CHEF_OAUTH2_APP_ID=[Application ID of the oc-id application you just registered]
  CHEF_OAUTH2_SECRET=[Secret of the oc-id application you just registered]
  ```

Restart your *foreman* server.

Now, when you click **Sign In**, you will be taken to your supermarket account with your Chef account!

**Note**: If you receive an omniauth csrf detected error, try clearing your browser's cache.

## SPDX license linking for cookbooks

If a cookbook that has *licenseId*, which is also mentioned in *SPDX license* listed at <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-data/blob/master/json/licenses.json>, you need to update with respective license URL.

When a new cookbook is uploaded, license url information is fetched from the above link and is updated.

For an existing implementation of supermarket, there is a provision running with some *ctl* commands, for updating the information for cookbooks already there in system.

Following commands are available to update the license URLs for cookbooks:

### Update licenses URLs for all the cookbooks in the system

`spdx-all`

### Update for a single cookbook

`spdx-latest <cookbook_name>`

### Update for a particular version of a cookbook

`spdx-on-version <cookbook_name> <cookbook_version>`

## Connecting your GitHub Account

There are a couple of features that depend on GitHub integration (some quality metrics in Fieri) with your development environment. Follow these steps to create an application with your Github account:

1. Log into your Github account.
1. Click on your **username** in the upper right-hand corner. Your Profile page appears.
1. Click the **Edit Profile** button in the upper right corner of the Profile page.
1. Click **Applications** from the vertical menu on the left-hand side.
1. Click the **Register new Application** button from the section labeled **Developer applications** at the top of the screen.
1. Specify the name of your application (For example, *Chef-Supermarket-Testing*), then set the homepage URL as <http://localhost:3000> (or whatever localhost domain that you use).
1. Set the *Authorization callback URL* to `http://localhost:3000` (or your localhost domain of choice).
1. Click the **Register application** button.
1. Open the `.env.development` file in your local copy of the *Supermarket repo*.
1. Replace these values:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=YOUR_GITHUB_KEY
  GITHUB_SECRET=YOUR_GITHUB_SECRET
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=[Your new application's client ID]
  GITHUB_SECRET=[Your new application's client secret]
  ```

1. Next, create a *Github Access* token. You can also do this from the **Applications** section of your **Profile** page.

1. Navigate to the **Personal access tokens** section.
1. Click the **Generate new token** button.
1. When prompted, enter your **Github password**.
1. Enter the **Token description**. For example, *testing-supermarket*.
1. Leave the scopes at the defaults.
1. Click the **Generate token** button.
1. Copy the token generated and secure it safe!.
1. Open up your `.env.development` file again.
1. Replace this value:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=YOUR_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=[Token you just generated through Github]
  ```

## Connecting your GitHub Enterprise Account

There are a couple of features that depend on GitHub Enterprise integration (some quality metrics in Fieri) with your development environment. Follow these steps to create an application with your Github account::

1. Log into your Github Enterprise account.
1. Click on your **username** in the upper right-hand corner.
1. Click **User settings** in the vertical menu on the right corner. Your public Profile page appears.
1. Click **Developer settings** in the vertical menu on the left-hand side.
1. Click the section labeled **Developer settings** with text *OAuth App* at the top of the screen.
1. Click **new OAuth App**. You can now register to a new *OAuth application* page.
1. Specify the name of your application. (For example, *testing-supermarket-app*), then set the homepage URL as <http://localhost:3000> (or whatever localhost domain that you use).
1. Set the **Authorization callback URL** to <http://localhost:3000/auth/github/callback> (or your localhost domain of choice).
1. Click the **"**Register application** button.
1. Open up the `.env.development` file in your local copy of the *Supermarket repo*.
1. Replace these values:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=YOUR_GITHUB_KEY
  GITHUB_SECRET=YOUR_GITHUB_SECRET
  GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_URL
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_SITE=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_SITE
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_AUTHORIZE_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_AUTHORIZE_URL
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_KEY=[Your new application's client ID]
  GITHUB_SECRET=[Your new application's client secret]
  GITHUB_ENTERPRISE_URL=[Your GitHub Enterprise URL]
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_SITE=YOURGITHUBENTERPRISEURL/api/v3
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_AUTHORIZE_URL=YOURGITHUBENTERPRISEURL/login/oauth/authorize
  GITHUB_CLIENT_OPTION_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL=YOURGITHUBENTERPRISEURL/login/oauth/access_token
  ```

1. Next, create a **GitHub Access** token. You also do this from the **Developer settings** section.

1. Click **Personal access tokens**. The *Personal access tokens* page appears.
1. Navigate to the **Personal access tokens** section.
1. Click the **Generate new token** button.
1. When prompted, enter your **GitHub password**.
1. Enter the **Token description**. For example, *testing-supermarket*.
1. Leave the scopes at the defaults.
1. Click the **Generate token** button.
1. Copy the token generated and secure it safe!.
1. Open up your `.env.development` file again.
1. Replace this value:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=YOUR_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
  ```

  with:

  ```shell
  GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=[Token you just generated through Github]
  ```

## Tests

Requirements for tests: Chromium-browser / Google-chrome, Node.

Run the entire test suite (rspec, rubocop and mocha) with:

```shell
bundle exec rake spec:all
```

### Acceptance Tests

Acceptance tests are run with [Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara). Run `rake spec:features` to run the specs in `spec/features`. The default `rake spec` also runs these.

When writing feature specs, the *Rack::Test* driver is used by default. If the *cuprite* driver is required to be used (for example, an acceptance test that uses AJAX), add the `use_cuprite: true` metadata to the spec.

Some specs run using [chromium-browser](https://www.chromium.org/)/[Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/), which must be installed for the test suite to pass.

### JavaScript Tests

The JavaScript specs are run with [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io) and use the [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) test framework and the [Chai Assertion Library](http://chaijs.com/).

The specs live in `spec/javascripts`. Run `rake spec:javascripts` to run the specs, and `rake spec:javascripts:watch` to run them continuously and watch for changes.

[Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) is required to run the JavaScript tests.

## Background Jobs

[Read about Supermarket's background jobs in the wiki](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/wiki/Background-Jobs).

## Feature Flags

*Supermarket* uses a `.env` file to configure itself. Inside this file are *key/value* pairs. These *key/value* pairs will be exported as environment variables when the app runs, and *Supermarket* looks for these keys as environment variables when it needs to read a value that's configurable.

One of these keys is called `FEATURES` and it controls a number of features that can be turned on and off. Here are the available features that can be toggled:

* tools
* fieri
* announcement
* github
* no_crawl
